Welcome to WantToKnow.info.

At WantToKnow.info , we go beyond today’s headlines to uncover the hidden forces shaping history and driving global events today, regardless of who’s elected in office. Our organization serves a dual purpose: exposing verifiable information on high level corruption and cover-ups and highlighting the best of humanity with solutions and stories that remind us of our innate goodness and collective power.

Our Origins

We are a 501(c)(3) nonprofit information service established in 2003 by Fred Burks, a White House presidential interpreter turned whistleblower. He had first-hand access to high levels of power, witnessed government lies and deception, and wanted to educate the public using verifiable and reliable information.

Since then, we’ve received 24+ million visits.

Our Work

Weekly Newsletters

Summaries of important news articles on major cover-ups, the hidden forces shaping history and driving today’s global challenges, and inspiring stories and solutions.

News Database

Every weekly news summary enters our news archive of 13,000+ articles across 100+ categories—a research tool used by thousands of journalists, researchers, activists, and everyday truth seekers since our founding. Our database stands as one of the most comprehensive collections of conspiracy and corruption news. We also have over 3,000 news article summaries and 18 subcategories focused on inspirational news and solutions.

Substack + YouTube

Original investigations, mindful news briefs, interviews, and visual storytelling that weave together darker truths with the inspiring movements transforming those very systems.

Our Comprehensive Information Centers:

COVID Corruption

UFO Disclosure

Military Intelligence Corruption

Media Manipulation

Health and Food Corruption

9/11 Cover-Up

Mind Control

Privacy and Technology

Banking and Finance

Near Death Experiences

JFK Assassination

Energy

Election Fraud

We can't shift the chaos we're in until we name it. When we can recognize what's harming us — in our personal lives and as a society — we already have a degree of freedom from it. Challenging information like this can paradoxically remind us of the greater good. It is the courage of the people and the love for the common good that bring these injustices to light—fueling uncensored dialogue and constructive action.

Understanding the magnitude of secrecy, corruption, and power abuses hidden from public awareness is vital to a democratic society. Yet reporting on the problems of the world is not enough. Solutions to society's problems are often under-reported and reforms go unrealized. We also research and summarize stories that inspire hope and explore solutions to our world’s pressing problems. Our Inspiration Center focuses on solutions, bridging divides, and unique human stories.

We appreciate you taking the time to explore our work!

WantToKnow.info is a news information service of the nonprofit organization, Public Education & Empowerment Resource Service (PEERS). PEERS embraces a bold vision of building a brighter future by cultivating global community and by educating the public on little-known forces underlying the political and economic structures shaping our world.