Behind the Scenes at the World's Largest UFO/UAP Conference

I recently went to the 10th Anniversary of Contact in the Desert, the world's largest UFO conference. This event holds immense significance as an unprecedented bipartisan movement is currently creating the clearest political path to UAP/UFO disclosure that we’ve ever seen.

This comes after after at least 80 years of well-documented UFO cases, groundbreaking testimonies from high-ranking military officials, and government efforts to cover up any real inquiry into the phenomena while covertly studying it for their own purposes in secret programs partly funded by our taxpayer dollars.

I had the opportunity to talk to the leaders at the center of this movement.

While some may doubt that the current disclosure process will produce meaningful results, these efforts leave a trail of documentation showing that people remembered that our government belongs to us, and we stood up for our values.

Because it’s not just about chasing shiny lights in the sky. It’s about whether or not we want to have an honest government and media system. It’s about making sure any technologies or breakthroughs discovered from this process benefit the human family, and not centralized power that profits off of war and inequality. It’s about the future of humanity, and the awe and wonder of who we are in relation to the larger cosmos.

GET INVOLVED:

Subscribe to our free weekly newsletter here: https://www.wanttoknow.info/subscribe

Explore the WantToKnow.info UFO Information Center https://www.wanttoknow.info/ufo-infor.. .

Urge Congress to Pass the UAP Disclosure Act https://newparadigminstitute.org/acti.. .

Join Our Citizens for Disclosure Movement https://ufos.pro/join-citizens-for-di.. .

Take Action - Demand UAP Transparency https://ufos.pro/demand-uap-transparency

As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, we depend almost entirely on donations from people like you. We really need your help to continue this work! Please consider making a donation: https://www.wanttoknow.info/donationswtk