WantToKnow.info

Archive - WantToKnow.info WantToKnow.info Subscribe Sign in Home WantToKnow.info Transformation Series Original Investigations Youtube Inspirational WTK Twitter Instagram Archive About Latest Top Discussions Epstein Files Pt. 1: What Official Documents Are Revealing About Elite Child Trafficking, Sexual Blackmail, and Mind Control A declassified FBI report regarding an alleged Epstein victim, and a brief, verifiable history of high-level trafficking, rape, torture and murder of… Feb 11 • Amber Yang 29 8 12 Epstein Files Pt. 2: Beyond Sex Trafficking—Zorro Ranch and a Darker Scientific Agenda Epstein’s deep ties to the scientific and banking elite–and their active exploration of eugenics, designer babies, human cloning, social engineering… Feb 19 • Amber Yang 26 7 14 Transforming the War Machine, One Human Story at a Time | 25-Min Video War destroys. These powerful real-life stories show that we can heal, reimagine better alternatives, and plant the seeds of a global shift in… Jan 22, 2025 • Amber Yang 29 2 5 Epstein Was Just the Tip of the Iceberg: How Blackmail Subverts Democracy Blackmail is a weapon used by intelligence agencies with the purpose of destroying reputations, protecting criminal activities of the powerful… May 17, 2024 • Amber Yang 20 3 4 UFO Disclosure: Breakthrough Technology and Awakening Human Consciousness | 26-min Video The unprecedented push for UFO disclosure is awakening humanity to the most transformative story of our lifetime. Sep 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 14 2 3 Geoengineering is a Weapon That's Been Rebranded as Climate Science. There's a Better Way To Heal the Earth. We don’t need to manipulate the climate with artificial technologies. We need to regenerate the Earth from the ground up. Aug 10, 2025 • Mark Bailey and Amber Yang 12 6 Beyond Fear Series | The Social Media Platform Transforming Division Into Common Ground Taiwan’s bold experiment, vTaiwan, shows what happens when technology is harnessed as a listening tool for the radical purpose of bringing people… Aug 18, 2025 • Amber Yang 15 2 7 Historic Senate Panel Exposes How the US Government Turns a Blind Eye to the Corporate Cartels Fueling America’s Health Crisis Giant corporations control our food and healthcare systems, fueling a chronic disease epidemic that's threatening the future of humanity. Oct 6, 2024 • Amber Yang 13 7 4 'One of Our Nation's Darkest Secrets:' The Real Story Behind the Assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. Nefarious efforts by the US military, intelligence, and law enforcement machinery to harass, blackmail, and discredit Dr. King. Undeniable evidence… Mar 9, 2024 • Amber Yang 11 1 4 The Pesticide Crisis Reveals The Dark Side of Science. We Have The Solutions to Regenerate. The institutions meant to protect us have turned a blind eye to a widespread, decades-long conspiracy to poison our food, land, and water. The path to… Jul 20, 2025 • Amber Yang 12 1 7 Beyond the War On Peace in Ukraine What the war machine fears the most: an informed public. We're here to share the best of our verifiable research to uncover the hidden forces shaping… Mar 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 9 2 2 Beyond Fear Series | How Consciousness Research Can Help Heal a Divided World A society that can self-regulate, self-heal, and access deeper layers of perception is harder to manipulate and even harder to govern through fear. Nov 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 11 2 5 © 2026 Amber Yang · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts