WantToKnow.info

WantToKnow.info | Amber Yang | Substack WantToKnow.info Subscribe Sign in Home WantToKnow.info Transformation Series Original Investigations Youtube Inspirational WTK Twitter Instagram Archive About Original Investigations Latest Top Discussions Epstein Files Pt. 2: Beyond Sex Trafficking—Zorro Ranch and a Darker Scientific Agenda Epstein’s deep ties to the scientific and banking elite–and their active exploration of eugenics, designer babies, human cloning, social engineering… Feb 19 • Amber Yang 26 7 14 Epstein Files Pt. 1: What Official Documents Are Revealing About Elite Child Trafficking, Sexual Blackmail, and Mind Control A declassified FBI report regarding an alleged Epstein victim, and a brief, verifiable history of high-level trafficking, rape, torture and murder of… Feb 11 • Amber Yang 29 8 12 Managing a Society in Crisis: A History of Militarized Policing in the US and the Suppression of Dissent Across the Political Spectrum Policymakers predicted social breakdown in the 60s. militarized policing, suppressing dissent, and the use of social division to justify authoritarian… Jan 15 • Amber Yang 5 1 How The Deep State Won the War on Drugs: A Complete Timeline The war on drugs operates as a pipeline to feed big banks, CIA covert wars and black budget programs, cartels, and mass incarceration while maintaining… Jan 8 • Amber Yang 9 1 Navigating Media Propaganda & Awakening Solutions for a Regenerative Future | Presentation by WTK Director Amber Yang I draw on my work with WantToKnow.info, restorative justice, and media literacy to explore the challenges facing our media and public health systems … Nov 30, 2025 • Amber Yang 4 2 2 Geoengineering is a Weapon That's Been Rebranded as Climate Science. There's a Better Way To Heal the Earth. We don’t need to manipulate the climate with artificial technologies. We need to regenerate the Earth from the ground up. Aug 10, 2025 • Mark Bailey and Amber Yang 12 6 The Pesticide Crisis Reveals The Dark Side of Science. We Have The Solutions to Regenerate. The institutions meant to protect us have turned a blind eye to a widespread, decades-long conspiracy to poison our food, land, and water. The path to… Jul 20, 2025 • Amber Yang 12 1 7 The Soul of American Democracy: Celebrating the Life of Bill Moyers Bill Moyers reminded us time and again: the real story isn’t just the personalities on stage, but the power structures behind the curtain. Jun 30, 2025 • Amber Yang 11 5 2 In a World of Manufactured Wars, Who Belongs in the Circle of Human Concern? US and Iran have co-created decades of collective trauma. How do we uncover the full truth beyond allegiance and ideology, and back into our shared… Jun 24, 2025 • Amber Yang 9 4 3 Beyond the War On Peace in Ukraine What the war machine fears the most: an informed public. We're here to share the best of our verifiable research to uncover the hidden forces shaping… Mar 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 9 2 2 Historic Senate Panel Exposes How the US Government Turns a Blind Eye to the Corporate Cartels Fueling America’s Health Crisis Giant corporations control our food and healthcare systems, fueling a chronic disease epidemic that's threatening the future of humanity. Oct 6, 2024 • Amber Yang 13 7 4 Epstein Was Just the Tip of the Iceberg: How Blackmail Subverts Democracy Blackmail is a weapon used by intelligence agencies with the purpose of destroying reputations, protecting criminal activities of the powerful… May 17, 2024 • Amber Yang 20 3 4 'One of Our Nation's Darkest Secrets:' The Real Story Behind the Assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. Nefarious efforts by the US military, intelligence, and law enforcement machinery to harass, blackmail, and discredit Dr. King. Undeniable evidence… Mar 9, 2024 • Amber Yang 11 1 4 The Nuanced View on COVID Vaccine Injuries and Lawsuits A nuanced look into a censored and controversial topic. Undisclosed risks of the COVID vaccine are part of a larger story of Big Pharma corruption and… Mar 9, 2024 • Amber Yang 7 1 2 © 2026 Amber Yang · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts