WantToKnow.info

WantToKnow.info | Amber Yang | Substack WantToKnow.info Subscribe Sign in Home WantToKnow.info Transformation Series Original Investigations Youtube Inspirational WTK Twitter Instagram Archive About PEERS Transformation Series Latest Top Discussions UFO Disclosure Explained: New Solutions for Humanity w/ Daniel Sheehan and Amber Yang (Video) A visually impactful 23-minute educational video exploring the unprecedented UFO disclosure movement now underway to declassify reality. Mar 13 • Amber Yang 8 2 Turning 30: My Reflections on Transforming a Divided and Violent World | Introduction to the Season for Nonviolence As we enter the Season for Nonviolence, I reflect on the profound awakening and initiations that led me onto a path of personal and collective… Jan 31 • Amber Yang 10 4 1 Beyond Fear Series | How Consciousness Research Can Help Heal a Divided World A society that can self-regulate, self-heal, and access deeper layers of perception is harder to manipulate and even harder to govern through fear. Nov 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 11 2 5 UFO Disclosure: Breakthrough Technology and Awakening Human Consciousness | 26-min Video The unprecedented push for UFO disclosure is awakening humanity to the most transformative story of our lifetime. Sep 4, 2025 • Amber Yang 14 2 3 Beyond Fear Series | The Social Media Platform Transforming Division Into Common Ground Taiwan’s bold experiment, vTaiwan, shows what happens when technology is harnessed as a listening tool for the radical purpose of bringing people… Aug 18, 2025 • Amber Yang 15 2 7 How to Transform a Divided World — It Starts with This | 20-Min Video What transforms a divided world isn’t just more negative news and the same old talking points. It’s the relationships that break the cycle of hate… Jul 6, 2025 • Amber Yang 7 5 2 We Have the Tech to Transform Our World w/ Joe Martino and Mark Bailey Technologies that could transform our economy, media, and environment already exist. Why aren't we adopting them? May 17, 2025 • Amber Yang , Joe Martino , and Mark Bailey 5 1 Reconnect with the Genuine: A Visual Journey of Collective Transformation Interwoven with the breathtaking words of visionary civil rights leader Howard Thurman, this visual journey captures the real faces, social movements… May 7, 2025 • Amber Yang 4 1 Lonely World, Failing Systems: Inspiring Stories Reveal What Sustains Us If and when systems collapse, what will we choose to build together? These stories remind us where the real security and strength come from: the… Apr 13, 2025 • Amber Yang 8 2 3 How to Transform Media Polarization, One Echo Chamber At A Time | 31-Min Video Making sense of media deception and propaganda beyond partisan lines, and solutions that bring us all together. We’re taking public discourse back from… Apr 1, 2025 • Amber Yang 6 2 1 Transforming the War Machine, One Human Story at a Time | 25-Min Video War destroys. These powerful real-life stories show that we can heal, reimagine better alternatives, and plant the seeds of a global shift in… Jan 22, 2025 • Amber Yang 29 2 5 Healing the Culture Wars–One Conscious Conversation at a Time We hold the power to heal the polarization poisoning our conversations. Sep 3, 2024 • Amber Yang 10 3 5 © 2026 Amber Yang · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts