Summaries, Information Centers for 9/11, media, war, health, energy, elections cover-ups

Hidden in Plain Sight

Vital Information to Transform our World

WantToKnow.info is an educational website which provides reliable, verifiable information from respected sources on major cover-ups and corruption occurring in our world today. Almost all information is taken from the most reliable sources available with links provided for easy verification. As a means of dealing with this sometimes disturbing information, WantToKnow.info also presents a wealth of inspiring and empowering information to build a brighter future for us all.

For the best quick introduction, we've developed information centers and two-page and ten-page summaries for each topic listed below. In this chart, you can also find links to riveting one-paragraph summaries of major media news articles and dynamic online lessons presenting the best videos, essays, quotes, and more on each topic. The summaries are designed to be printed directly from the Internet. Two-page summaries are also available in .pdf using the icon at top of the page.

Dynamic Online Courses Connect the Dots, Present Big Picture

The developers of WantToKnow.info have created several free, online courses designed to deepen understanding of our lives and world. These highly praised courses bring together the best of the Internet with mind expanding videos, essays, quotes, and more designed to nurture wisdom and connect the dots on the big picture of all that is happening in our world. The journey through these dynamic online courses will support you in feeling more connected with yourself and all around you, in more fully experiencing life in all its richness, and in making a difference in our world.

The Wisdom Courses

Summaries of Individual Resources

Best Overall Summaries

Special Note on Best Single Resource

The best single source revealing the deepest levels of deception is an amazing, free online book titled Lifting the Veil . Inviting you on a journey far down the rabbit hole, this masterpiece provides over 500 footnotes to highly credible sources to show how our lives and world have been manipulated by powerful groups of psychopaths in ways you may not have suspected. Yet it also shows that when we take personal responsibility, we can free ourselves to live the lives we choose. Don't miss this incredibly rich, informative book.

https://www.WantToKnow.info/mk/liftingtheveil - Lifting the Veil